docs(bil): adding how-tos MTA-4070 (#2647)
scaleway/docs-content: console/billing/how-to/use-billing-alerts.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: How to use Billing Alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: How to use billing alerts
```

  description: This page explains how to use billing alerts
content:

>   h1: How to use Billing Alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: How to use billing alerts
```

  paragraph: This page explains how to use billing alerts
tags: billing-alert alerts billing budget 
dates:

>   validation: 2024-01-14

Author: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-02-14
```

>   posted: 2024-01-14

Author: ```suggestion
  posted: 2024-02-14
```

categories:
  - console
---

> The **Billing Alerts** functionality within the Scaleway console allows users to oversee and control their expenses efficiently. This feature allows you to create alerts that notify users when predefined budget thresholds are met. Your alerts can be seamlessly delivered through SMS, email, or API webhook channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **billing alerts** functionality within the Scaleway console allows users to oversee and control their expenses efficiently. This feature allows you to create alerts that notify users when predefined budget thresholds are met. Your alerts can be seamlessly delivered through SMS, email, or API webhook channels.
```

> The **billing alerts** functionality within the Scaleway console allows users to oversee and control their expenses efficiently. This feature allows you to create alerts that notify users when predefined budget thresholds are met. Your alerts can be seamlessly delivered through SMS, email, or API webhook channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **billing alerts** within the Scaleway console allows users to oversee and control their expenses efficiently. This feature allows you to create alerts that notify users when predefined budget thresholds are met. Your alerts can be seamlessly delivered through SMS, email, or API webhook channels.
```

Your budget, denominated in euros, represents the limit for your expenses. Simultaneously, the threshold corresponds to a predetermined percentage of this budget. You have the autonomy to define both the budget and the threshold within the console interface.

**For example:**

>   - If you have defined a budget of €1000, you may configure an email notification to be sent once you have consumed 50% of this limit. In this case, once your consumption gets to €500 you will receive an email informing you the limit threshold has been reached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If you have defined a budget of €1,000, you may configure an email notification to be sent once you have consumed 50% of this limit. In this case, once your consumption reaches €500 you will receive an email informing you the limit threshold has been reached.
```

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />
 
<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
</Message>

> 1. Go to the Billing page by clicking on **Billing** in the Organization drop-down menu of the Scaleway console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Access your [Billing page](https://console.scaleway.com/organization/billing) on the Scaleway console.
```

Author: > https://console.scaleway.com/organization/billing

There will be a new billing space/page that wont be accessible from the organization dashboard anymore.

Reviewer 3: Indeed, the Billing tab will disappear from the Organization dashboard, but you can still access the Billing Space from the drop-down menu or the shortcut link (see screenshot). Jessie's suggestion works for me :) 
<img width="934" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-19 at 11 43 22" src="https://github.com/scaleway/docs-content/assets/124775951/0538148e-b405-48d6-9f8f-93e687d4bf9f">

Author: > Indeed, the Billing tab will disappear from the Organization dashboard, but you can still access the Billing Space from the drop-down menu or the shortcut link (see screenshot). Jessie's suggestion works for me :)

Ah okay.. the links stay the same? .. In that case I will change it for all the pages .. Thanks :)

2. Click **Consumption**.
3. Scroll down to find **Billing alerts**.
    <Message type="important">

>       Billing alerts only provide a rough estimate of what may be charged to your monthly invoice. Additional costs related to your usage before the alert is triggered may still appear on your invoice after the alert is generated. Only your monthly invoice is considered legally valid.

Reviewer 2: I'd rather put this message at the end of the procedure

Author: > I'd rather put this message at the end of the procedure

You're right.. it's better to have this message at the end.

    </Message>
4. Click **Create a billing alert** to configure an alert action. A pop-up displays.
5. Enter the percentage threshold that triggers the alert and configure the warning that will be sent.
    Available warning types are: 
    * SMS notifications
    * E-mail notifications
    * Webhook triggers
6. Click **Create billing alert** to enable the alert.

>     You may set up to 10 billing alerts. If you wish to add more, click **Add billing alert** and repeat the steps above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You may set up to 10 billing alerts. If you wish to create more, click **Add billing alert**, and repeat the steps above.
```

## Webhook API Call

> When you configure a Webhook, an `HTTP` request is made to the configured URL. It will transmit the following information as an `HTTP POST` request to the given URL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you configure a Webhook, an `HTTP` request is made to the configured URL. It transmits the following information as an `HTTP POST` request to the given URL:
```

```
Header: "Content-Type": "application/json"
POST /my/configured/webhook
{
    "invoice_start_date": <INVOICE_START_DATE>,
    "threshold": <THRESHOLD_VALUE_IN_PERCENT>
}
```

> <Navigation title="See Also">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Navigation title="See also">
```

---
meta:
  title: How to use billing alerts
  description: This page explains how to use billing alerts
content:
  h1: How to use billing alerts
  paragraph: This page explains how to use billing alerts
tags: billing-alert alerts billing budget 
dates:
  validation: 2024-02-14
  posted: 2024-02-14
categories:
  - billing
---

> The **billing alerts** within the Scaleway console allows users to oversee and control their expenses efficiently. This feature allows you to create alerts that notify users when predefined budget thresholds are met. Your alerts can be seamlessly delivered through SMS, email, or API webhook channels.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The **billing alerts** within the Scaleway console allow you to oversee your expenses efficiently. This feature allows you to create alerts that notify users when predefined budget thresholds are met. Your alerts can be seamlessly delivered through SMS, email, or API webhook channels.
```
